---
title: Year in Review - 2020
description: |
  So...the year is over, huh? Guess it's time for a recap of the longest year.
date: 2020-12-31
tags:
  - personal
---

_So...the year is over, huh?_ Guess it's time for a recap of the longest year.

Well, first and foremost I'm not going to delve into too much detail about COVID
and all that People are mostly _sick_ hearing about it, and aside of a few
personal experiences that changed over the year, I don't have much to add to the
discussion anyway. I worked 3 full months in home office, which was a seamless
transition due to our company already mandating a VPN setup for every employee
into our local company network.

---

## So, what exactly happened in 2020?

### Trip to Obergurgl

The very first thing that happened in 2020 was pretty much in the beginning of
January, our company had a trip to Obergurgl in Austria for its 10th
anniversary.

For people not knowing, Obergurgl is a rather expensive/chique ski resort, so we
pretty much had an "all out" weeklong trip, and I'm pretty sure most of us won't
forget that for quite a while. I personally didn't really ski there, but went
tobogganing (sledding) instead, the destined area for that was a hell of a ride
and I ended up being lucky not being bruised all over. The definitive highlight
of the week was a seated VR Flight Simulator setup (using XPlane 11) that was up
for one day.

One of the apprentices at our company actually cut together a short impression
video, you can
[watch here](https://twitter.com/in2code_de/status/1219282262556127232).

### Online Demoparties

I've been attending demoparties since 2018 (Revision 2018 was my first one!) and
since I tried to at least attend Revision (Saarbr√ºcken, Easter weekend) and
Evoke (Cologne, in Summer) every year. This year was a bit different though, but
instead of the event being cancelled, it was moved online using streams.
Additionally, everything was made a bit more lively-er and fun with
[Sofa World](https://www.sofaworld.net/), which pretty much is an virtual demo
party space in which the creators rebuild the actual location in which players
then can watch the streams on actual bigscreens!

![](https://desu.pictures/GentleSilverBoar0.jpg) _Picture of the E-Werk in
Saarbr√ºcken, inside Sofa World, courtesy of https://www.sofaworld.net/_

_I also attended both Outline and Nova, but really mostly spent my time in Sofa
World finding easter eggs on the new maps._

### Retrospring

Remember [Retrospring](https://retrospring.net/)? _Me neither._ Considering it
ended in 2016, and we decided to bring it back on April Fools 2017 without any
further support, after 3 years of doing nothing, we actually started working on
things again a bit, at least slowly. Main issue is that we need to refactor our
sins from 6 years ago, and that takes quite a while. The main achievements this
year definitely were the addition of Two Factor Authentication and the whole
frontend refactor.

Some before/after pictures I posted in tweets below:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">profile page glowup <a href="https://t.co/uF1BNHcElR">pic.twitter.com/uF1BNHcElR</a></p>&mdash; Andy (@pixeldesu) <a href="https://twitter.com/pixeldesu/status/1256248994839302147?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 1, 2020</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Reworking the navigation for the Home Timeline, Public Timeline and Groups.<br><br>actually making Groups visible with some help text because there&#39;s surely some people that don&#39;t know Retrospring actually had groups all those years. <a href="https://t.co/TiMwOm0uk3">pic.twitter.com/TiMwOm0uk3</a></p>&mdash; Andy (@pixeldesu) <a href="https://twitter.com/pixeldesu/status/1257491717592416257?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 5, 2020</a></blockquote>

### I Deleted My Google Account

Why? _Because I can._

I'm not that super strong on "keeping my personal data safe", but it's
definitely something I've been thinking more about recently. So, at the end of
last year I evaluated how much I actually use my Google account and...I barely
used it at all.

So I decided to delete it. I'm now approaching one year without any personal
Google account, and I absolutely don't miss it. My email always was managed
externally, first on a server that I partially paid for and now I'm running a
plan on Fastmail.

The really only thing I use on the regular from Google is YouTube, and aside of
the videos that are marked as not suitable for young audiences, I still can
watch everything on there just fine. For managing subscriptions, I even built
[a custom webapp](https://videoline.app/) that utilizes ancient YouTube RSS
feeds!

_Shortly after that, I also deleted my Facebook account, that indeed was lying
barren for like 5 years._

### Handling Productivity

One of my largest personal issues in the past few years has been productivity,
or at least my _perceived_ one. A lot of people probably know the feeling that
they want to get stuff done and then just end up staring into their screens for
the rest of the day/evening/etc. and I wanted to overcome that.

For that to work I started to use [Todoist](https://todoist.com/) and fittingly
enough found
[a productivity guide and quiz](https://todoist.com/de/productivity-methods)
that led me into trying out a methodology fitting for myself: **Getting Things
Done** (or GTD for short). I started shaping my Todoist to work that way and
I've done so since September. It definitely has worked out for myself.

But another huge part in getting over this was figuring out that even if I
perceived that I was unproductive, by the time I thought that I already did
loads of things, and to-do lists helped to visualize that to me.

I want to talk more about this, but I will go more in-depth into how I'm
handling all that stuff in a separate blog post in the future!

### I Read Umineko...

_...Finally._ I started it in 2018, and due to...probably just the paragraph
above and me not managing my time properly, I lost track of it. So, in my 2 week
vacation in September I finally got myself to finish it. I read the remaining 5
(out of 8) episodes in a span of 5 days, one episode per day, where the average
reading length is **at least** 8-10 hours.

I was absolutely floored at the end of it, not just because these were super
long nights, but also emotionally. I don't often want to claim something is
"perfect", but Umineko is so close to that, it's an experience I won't ever
forget.

Additionally, a few months after finishing the VN/soundnovel, I also read the
manga, which I finished just yesterday. It includes a bit more details in a few
aspects and it visualizes a few scenes better due to the manga panels of course
showing more than the few (but still numerous) CGs in the VN.

For the next year it's onwards to more 07th Expansion (most likely Higurashi)
and other VNs!

### I Organized an Online (Un)Conference

I did not just attend several online events and conferences this year, I
actually helped out organizing one!
[TYPO3Camp Munich](https://www.typo3camp-munich.de/), which I usually attend to
in person.

Over the course of two months I helped with several things, but my personal
focus was finding the setup for the conference itself, considering the sheer
amount of tools available nowadays. We opted for a conference room tool and
Jitsi rooms at the side for more personal interactions. And it seemed people
were getting used to it quite quickly. When the actual event happened at the end
of September I also did moderation of some talks.

Being on the other side of conferences once was quite nice and I'll definitely
help out the following years as well!

### I Started Streaming (Again)

Did you know I have a [Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/pixeldesu)? Now you
do! In November my urge to go back to streaming finally grew big enough to
actually do it, and so I did! I prepared some fancy new visuals, finally set up
my Stream Deck among other things and I'm now streaming with a weekly schedule.

Currently streams are on hold until "the next year" because December turned out
quite stressful at work and I couldn't get myself to stream much. But they'll be
coming back in January for sure!

---

This probably summarizes most of the "larger "events"" this year...but wait, I'm
not done yet!

## Art Spotlight

I have an OC, and I love commissioning art of her, so that of course also
happened this year, the only two art pieces coming forth this year were
absolutely stunning though, check out the artists from the linked tweets!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="ca" dir="ltr">Drew <a href="https://twitter.com/pixeldesu?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@pixeldesu</a>&#39;s character for a commission ( ÀòœâÀò ) <a href="https://t.co/Aez3difKX3">pic.twitter.com/Aez3difKX3</a></p>&mdash; Guy (@guy_kun) <a href="https://twitter.com/guy_kun/status/1224119797962682368?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 2, 2020</a></blockquote>

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">aaaand first commission is done! <br><br>the adorable Poly for <a href="https://twitter.com/pixeldesu?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@pixeldesu</a> üíñ Thank you very much!! üëè <a href="https://t.co/f70KaCJu7r">pic.twitter.com/f70KaCJu7r</a></p>&mdash; mel (@Melonenbrot) <a href="https://twitter.com/Melonenbrot/status/1340670383389896704?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 20, 2020</a></blockquote>

Not just art in the traditional sense, but due to me going back to streaming and
being an affiliate, I finally got myself emotes too!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">PSA üëÄ<br><br>After roughly a year of being affiliate I finally decided on emotes for my stream, that are available...now! These were drawn by the amazing <a href="https://twitter.com/KageSatsuki?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@KageSatsuki</a>!<a href="https://t.co/XBranYUb5A">https://t.co/XBranYUb5A</a> <a href="https://t.co/W6RhN0acN2">pic.twitter.com/W6RhN0acN2</a></p>&mdash; Andy (@pixeldesu) <a href="https://twitter.com/pixeldesu/status/1331666054557392897?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 25, 2020</a></blockquote>

---

## Media Spotlight

There just were some things I enjoyed that I'll share with you, in a quick
rundown:

- My favorite games this year were **Umineko**, **Hades** and **TrackMania
  (2020)**
- In terms of music:
  - The album I probably listened to the most this year was
    [VIOLET by MAYA AKAI](https://diversesystem.bandcamp.com/album/violet)
  - My favorite album release this year was
    [HALCYONDAZE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_3VdvTibCI) (caution: linked
    video is very flashy)

There's probably a bunch of more stuff that I enjoyed throughout the year, but
I'm pretty sure I must have posted about most of these things on
Twitter/Mastodon anyway.

---

Okay, now...I'm finally done with the whole recap thing.

To end the whole post, I want to thank all the people that I talked to this
year, my friends in general, and all the new friends I made! Sometime soon we'll
be able to meet again in person, until then, chatting and talking will have to
suffice!

Even if my year was pretty positive throughout, I'm sure it wasn't that good for
many of you, remember that you have friends to reach out to that love you!

**We'll see each other again in 2021!**

üíô
