---
title: Out of the Loop(s)
description: |
  Loops (by Pixelfed) is all in the news, and in this post I'll talk about
  why it won't work out in the long term.
tags:
  - fediverse
comments:
  fediverse: https://desu.social/@pixel/113421567944508221
  bluesky:
    url: https://bsky.app/profile/pixelde.su/post/3la3h2w67hu26
    uri: at://did:plc:u75m626seejet3zy76fq7kiw/app.bsky.feed.post/3la3h2w67hu26
---

_[Loops](https://loops.video), a TikTok alternative by Daniel Supernault
(creator of Pixelfed), has been launched into closed beta and has been back in
the news recently. In this post, I talk about why the fediverse doesn't need a
TikTok alternative or why it won't even work out in the first place._

## Incompatible mindsets

The fediverse is growing, and a more diverse set of people is on here, many
people for different reasons. However, many people tend to come over here to
escape the irrelevant content fed by the over-optimized algorithms and the
increased tendency of social networks not to be social anymore.

TikTok and similar video short-form video platforms/features work entirely
against this. They mainly work to show exactly what you'd be enticed to watch
algorithmically, and the ability to quickly swipe to the next video in case you
don't like it, allows you to keep yourself in its grasp.

While a lot of people on text-based platforms also are mostly here to read and
share, the ratio of the creator to the consumer is way bigger there. Creators is
another large part that I'll get to.

## People making the content

With the fediverse growing, more creators have been coming here or even freshly
sprung from here, which is great. Of course, a new platform might spawn new
talents in the video creation space, but "a few" isn't going to cut it, if most
people stay consuming then content on TikTok-likes is going to dry out quickly.

Where does this assumption come from? Simple, another platform alternative that
has been around for ages already: **PeerTube.**

PeerTube has been around for a long time and it has been getting better with
every release, but there never was a big move towards it and we barely have any
creators solely pushing out content on a PeerTube instance. And the
fediverse-centric People who produce web video content upload theirs on YouTube.

Why? **Because of the two main incentives: Reach and money.**

Video content takes time, I assume that people would want others to see their
videos too. On the fediverse, reach is minimal. It highly depends on the content
being shared, the proper hashtags to be used so that someone miraculously
stumbles upon it, etc. On YouTube, you still share your video on other
platforms, but there's this high likelihood that your content matches what other
people like and they get it recommended on the platform itself. Besides many
people on the fediverse oppose the word "algorithm", recommendation algorithms
don't work across the protocol either.

Time is also money, and of course, there are a lot of people who do it for the
fun of it and enjoy sharing their knowledge or creations. This becomes a
commitment that some might want to get compensated for. The large platforms do
have programs like these with ads and pay for x amount of views, which also
makes it less likely that we have larger creators that might be fed up with
those platforms to move to the fediverse.

## Hosting is expensive

Speaking of the monetary aspect, video hosting is one of the most expensive
types of hosting. It needs an immense amount of storage, which can turn quite
pricey rather quickly, and if the platform has to transcode, then you also need
a lot of computing depending on your size.

If a lot of people end up hosting Loops and videos and users spread out evenly
then this doesn't end up as an issue, but with the code currently being closed
source there is no telling how easy it is to self-host or how many people end up
doing it.

## The software is not the problem

Generally, people building ActivityPub counterparts to software is not the
problem. It's nice even! However, in the case of TikTok, it doesn't make sense
because of the societal and community aspects, mentioned above. Federated video
platforms haven't worked out in the last almost decade of the fediverse (in
which PeerTube) was around, and I don't think that Loops has the potential to
change this.

Speaking of software...

## Serial fedipreneur, dansup

I don't want to get too personal in this blog post, but it's worth mentioning.
At most, I am impressed by the sheer amount of projects that dansup manages to
push out. Most of them to the benefit of the Fediverse, like
[Pixelfed](https://pixelfed.org/), [FediDB](https://fedidb.org/) and others.

**But the other side of the medal isn't too nice.** The title "fedipreneur"
doesn't come from anywhere after all. Whenever there is some niche to claim,
dansup is there to announce a project for it, and "beta starts next month"
becomes a meme rather quickly. Aside from the already launched projects, there
are
[sup., an encrypted fediverse messenger](https://mastodon.social/@dansup/110836811082599292),
(beta launching "later that month" in August 2023, beta not launched yet) and
[PubKit, an ActivityPub testing suite](https://pubkit.net/) (also announced
sometime last year, is in closed beta currently, according to the site at
least).

Just the idea of these projects is already cool in itself and I'm personally
really excited by something like PubKit (even though easy-to-use DIY solutions
like [Fedify](https://fedify.dev/) exist nowadays, to bridge that gap). I do
however think that dansup is putting too much on his plate. These projects don't
have dedicated teams, he's the only person working on them with irregular
contributions from others (ex. Pixelfed has 11k commits at the time of writing,
9700 are by dansup). Burnout can happen quickly and with the low prospect of
some of these newer ideas working out (like **sup.** and **Loops**), I think
it'd be better to focus on Pixelfed and FediDB to get the best out of these two
projects.

I understand the struggle of wanting to be the one to move things forward if no
one else does the first step, but this is unhealthy on more than one level.

---

While closed beta-induced FOMO is currently driving numbers high, I don't think
this will carry itself for long. This and the above reasons are why I don't
think that Loops is here to stay, or at least become a meaningful part of the
Fediverse.

Maybe I'm super wrong though and it ends up going better than I think. Who
knows.

_Only time will tell!_
