---
title: Recap of TYPO3 Community Sprint Q4 2024
description: |
  A report on my participation in the fourth and final TYPO3 Community Sprint of 2024,
  happening at the TYPO3 GmbH offices in Düsseldorf.
tags:
  - event-recap
  - typo3
templateEngine: [vto, md]
---

_Another quarter, another TYPO3 Community Sprint, which I'm, of course,
attending!_

To start things off nicely, I had no trouble with my train ride
[like in June](/blog/typo3-cs-2024-q2-recap). Things went smoothly, and I
arrived on time. I was one of the first people at the hotel.

In terms of focus for the sprint, the core team decided to make bug fixing of
the LTS release their priority in November, unsurprisingly labeling it
"Bug-Fixing November". The goal was to lower Forge issue counts and finish open
reviews on Gerrit.

I decided to focus on Backend JavaScript and Backend UX-related issues, which
are my forte in the TYPO3 Core. That said, I also refactored ancient things like
[`GIFBUILDER`](https://docs.typo3.org/m/typo3/reference-typoscript/main/en-us/Gifbuilder/Index.html)
last year.

{{ comp Dialog { character: "poly", emotion: "thinking" } }} And you never even
used <code>GIFBUILDER</code> before, did you? {{ /comp }}

As some of you know (from my social media posts), I've been playing a lot of
Satisfactory with friends lately. This led to a fun exchange on the first
evening of the sprint, being presented with massive factories and many tips and
tricks from the game by a definitive veteran (compared to my lousy 50-ish hours
of playtime).

This also led to another _side project_ at the sprint, unrelated to TYPO3...and
more related to Satisfactory. I also wanted to present my world, but only having
my Macbook with me and getting a Windows-only game running would be an act. I
remembered [Whisky](https://getwhisky.app/) from several of my friends who had
tried it before and decided to give it a shot. I was impressed; without much
tweaking, Satisfactory was running incredibly well on the **High** graphics
preset. This may influence my next laptop choice if my current Windows machine
dies at some point.

_Okay, enough trailing off; time for the TYPO3 stuff!_

## What I worked on

### Fix styling of disabled nullable fields

**Patch:** [#87035](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87035)

An issue came up right on Monday of the sprint: Nullable fields, discernible by
that "Set value" checkbox, didn't have proper dark mode styling yet, so I
initially fixed that quite simply. With some feedback from other core mergers,
we improved the styling to become a good solution for the moment.

When touching that part of the Form Engine, we noticed that the layout of
nullable fields needs refactoring. For a to-be-backported bugfix, it's not an
option to adjust the markup of fields (because it might break third-party
implementations easily), so we'll postpone that for later.

### Fix showing of parent items in selectTree filtering

**Patch:** [#87009](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87009)

A bug report that initially reported the category search not working where the
issue wasn't the search (that one worked just fine) but rather the behavior of
the "parent showing" logic when filtering for items.

To explain this, the list of nodes in a tree is generally flat to be worked
with, and each node contains parent references that help build the tree.

The logic to get the parent in the select-tree implementation was flawed; it
only worked for category trees with a single level and I fixed this in this
patch.

### Children of selectTree filter should be expandable

**Patch:** [#87005](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87005)

It's not my patch, but it's an excellent addition. This patch aligns the select
tree to the behavior of filtering in the page tree, meaning that filtering
allows unfolding child items of the searched item, which wasn't possible
previously.

My contributions to this patch were refactoring the code to be way simpler than
the initial implementation was, removing recursions and a lot of redundant
conditions.

### Make CKEditor context aware

**Patch:** [#87065](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87065)

Most of the backend was made dark mode-compatible in the 13.4 LTS release. One
part was a bit more tricky because it also required more consideration was the
RTE, CKEditor.

This patch doesn't exactly solve the problem because it still leaves entirely
the large white area since I only made the CKEditor UI dark mode compatible, not
the content area.

Why? As mentioned above, this is quite a tricky topic. How do people look at
CKEditor, is it just a rich structural representation, or a full-on WYSIWYG
editor that displays content precisely as it is in the front end (or close to
it)?

If we make the background dark mode-aware, we could break existing styling for
people who do the latter. That's why we're not shipping this now and probably
only make this a v14 change.

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  image: "/assets/img/blog/cs-q4-recap/ckeditor.png",
  alt: "Screenshot of the CKEditor UI in the TYPO3 backend in dark mode", 
  caption: "The CKEditor UI, in dark mode"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

### Show enum values in site settings in debug mode

**Patch:** [#87149](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87149)

This was a small request: Adjust the new Site Settings module to show values of
enum fields as it does in other Form Engine fields in debug mode.

This was relatively straightforward; it just required some work ahead of the
actual feature to pass the backend debug setting state into the frontend. After
this was done, showing the actual value was as simple as adjusting a single
line.

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  image: "/assets/img/blog/cs-q4-recap/site-settings.png",
  alt: "Screenshot of the TYPO3 site settings, a labelled dropdown visible", 
  caption: "A select field in site settings, showing the actual value"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

### Make system e-mails context aware

**Patch:** [#87147](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87147)

This came up due to another change: Because the backend login is becoming
context-aware (getting dark mode support), the TYPO3 logo SVG was adjusted to
contain CSS that changes the text color depending on the user's color
preference.

This same logo is used in system e-mails (test e-mails, password resets, form
framework). When someone would open the e-mail in some specific web mailing
interfaces, you could only see the orange emblem part of the logo because the
text would be white on a white background.

I initially opted to fix this by enforcing e-mails to always be styled in light
mode only, but I was then told to add dark mode to the system e-mails directly.

It should be straightforward with CSS. **Of course not; it's E-Mail.** Support
for dark mode queries is wildly different between mail services and devices, and
the combination of either, yadda-yadda. The best case is a "not-common" hosting
web mailer that displays HTML like that and adequately works in the browser
context.

This is quite a naive implementation of dark mode, and it'll work for those who
reported that problem.

_Reminded me once again why I'm not too fond of frontend work about e-mail._

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  image: "/assets/img/blog/cs-q4-recap/email.png",
  alt: "Screenshot of a TYPO3 password reset email in a dark theme", 
  caption: "The TYPO3 'Forgot password' email in dark mode"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

### Ignore invalid tree state in page tree drag actions

**Patch:** [#87168](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87168)

I'm not sure where I noticed this bug or if I heard someone talk about it, but
in some particular cases, it was not possible to drag a new or existing page to
the very end of an opened branch in the page tree.

I went into a deep-dive debugging through the dragging behavior of the tree
implementation. After one hour of debugging all kinds of values, I found the
issue: Broken persisted state.

The trees persist the state of opened nodes in the browser's local storage, so
they work with the users' expectation of returning to the state where they left
the tree. However, if all children of a node have been deleted, the `expanded`
state will still exist in the local storage.

If a node is marked as `expanded`, you can't drag an element behind it. In
combination with the broken state this now causes erratic behavior in the tree.

This could be fixed manually by deleting the local storage entry for the page
tree or using the"Collapse all tree items" option. Both of those reset the
state.

I opted to build a fix that would check for elements to have children when it
tries to set the state from local storage. We no longer need to set the
`expanded` state if no children exist.

{{ comp Dialog { character: "poly", emotion: "confused" } }} That's enough
messing around with tree data structures for the next while... {{ /comp }}

### Extend BeforeActionCallEvent functionality

**Patch:** [#87163](https://review.typo3.org/c/Packages/TYPO3.CMS/+/87163)

I never expected to touch Extbase logic, but here I am. My motivation for this
came up when I got a message from my colleague Marcus about some extension
things that I then talked about with Torben at the sprint, who previously built
the excellent file handling for Extbase into TYPO3 v13 (after people used a
somewhat broken "example" for the last 10 years).

This patch extends the `BeforeActionCallEvent` with the current request, where
previously only the arguments were passed into it. It additionally allows
setting a response object now, which returns that directly instead of executing
the Extbase action. This enables the addition of guard clauses to other
extensions' actions or anything else that might need to be changed before an
action.

The implementation is done, but before further discussion can happen, I need to
write documentation and examples for it as to why this is marked as a **Work in
Progress** still.

---

So yeah, this was the final sprint for the year, and it was productive, and I
had a lot of fun and insightful exchanges with old and new members of the
community again.

They are not listed here yet, but once the dates are decided, you can register
for Community Sprints [here](https://pretix.eu/typo3/).

The next event I'll be at will be TYPO3 User Group Munich's Christmas party, and
unless nothing happens in between, I'll be at
[Web Camp Venlo](https://www.webcampvenlo.nl/) in February 2025!

{{ comp Box { color: "lime" } }} Thanks to my employer
<a href="https://in2code.de" target="_blank">in2code GmbH</a> for counting
sprint participation as work time for me, it's much appreciated! {{ /comp }}
