---
title: Year in Review - 2024
description: |
  This year passed way too fast, but also a lot of things happened. So let's talk about them!
tags:
  - personal
templateEngine: [vto, md]
---

_This year passed quickly; I blinked a few times, and a few months passed. But
regardless of that feeling, a lot of things actually happened this year!_

## My website

First and foremost, I remade my website — the one you are reading this article
on right now! After about five years of attempts that I got discouraged from
quite quickly for different reasons (my design idea didn't stick with me,
tooling was bad, etc. pp.), I finally managed to release something I refined
over the year.

I'm really thankful to [Xe Iaso](https://xeiaso.net) for recommending me
[Lume](https://lume.land). It's been an absolute blast working with it. It
really made building a static site fun again. Since starting my site, I have
built plugins and recommended it to most of my friends for their site-building
endeavors.

_I could talk about Lume for days on end, but I'll do it in a separate blog
post!_

With a working site, I also got back into [blogging](/blog)! I have always
enjoyed writing about anything, whether technical or not, which has led to quite
a sound output this year. I have written 13 posts this year, including this blog
post. Looking a bit at the numbers, my most popular blog post of the year seems
to be ["Make your own Personal Hub"](/blog/make-your-own-personal-hub/).

## I attended a lot of (TYPO3) events

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({ 
  image: "/assets/img/blog/surfcamp-recap/flight-munich.jpg",
  alt: "Picture taken out of a plane window, showing a green landscape down below", 
  caption: "Picture out the plane window from my flight to Fuerteventura"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I've been on the road quite a bit this year, too! I've been at all four TYPO3
Community Sprints in Düsseldorf this year, bringing the project forward with fun
and productive meetings. Also, two of them had the probably worst train
experiences I had this year, with the first sprint featuring the return trip
being canceled due to strikes and the second one being the train ride
[that had longer delays than the ride initially should have taken](https://pixelde.su/blog/typo3-cs-2024-q2-recap/).

Aside from the sprints, I've also been to the TYPO3 DevDays and the TYPO3camp
Munich. Both are must-have events of the year that I always look forward to,
enjoying the talks of people and meeting new and old friends again!

At the TYPO3 DevDays, I also gave a talk,
["Migrating from jQuery—Core Journey to Vanilla JS"](/talks/migrating-from-jquery),
about the journey the TYPO3 Core took to migrate jQuery away to vanilla
JavaScript.

This year's biggest TYPO3 event for me was the
[TYPO3 Surfcamp](/blog/typo3-surfcamp-2024-recap)! I'm so glad I got offered the
opportunity to participate in it. Building these projects with people and
getting to know and befriend newcomers to the community has been an excellent
experience. Meeting everyone at the TYPO3 DevDays also felt like a class
reunion, even if we met for the first time a few months prior.

## Gaming

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({ 
  image: "/assets/img/blog/2024-review/steam.png",
  alt: "My Steam Recap of 2024", 
  caption: "My Steam Recap of 2024"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

Looking at my [Steam Replay](https://s.team/y24/gkqrghc?l=english) for this
year, I played many games. I'll talk about my favorite games this year now.

### Rabbit and Steel

I'm generally not a fan of games that are _hard_, and by the first look of it
and, are based on MMO raid mechanics, I thought that was awaiting me with
**Rabbit and Steel**. I still decided to get it, and I was pleasantly surprised.
While challenging, it has a nice learning curve, and especially in co-op, it's
been a blast, coordinating the battles and sometimes dying in fun coincidences.
Combined with the cute art style and banger soundtrack, this has been one of my
favorite games of the year.

### Deadlock

After Overwatch (and before that), I never really picked up online shooters too
much, but being invited into the closed alpha test (thanks to
[Steffo](https://steffo.eu)), I felt a bit intrigued...and Valve delivered. I'm
not a MOBA person (I loathe League of Legends, or rather... its players), but
Deadlock has been a lot of fun; I played with a group of friends. We still
tended to avoid other (human) players, mainly playing in bot lobbies, but I'm
all for that as long as we're having fun.

### Satisfactory

I played this way back when Early Access came out on Epic Games Store, but I
returned to it after 1.0 was released, together with two friends. I've been
enjoying my time with this and managed to build some wild (and sometimes highly
inefficient) assembly lines. The game is fun, and the first person elevates the
factory-building experience. I also absolutely adore the wacky things like the
carts and hypertubes...with which we basically spent hours after unlocking just
building cannons to shoot us out of the map boundaries. Also, the ADA dialogues
are ridiculous and round up the entire experience.

As some runner-ups, I also enjoyed **vivid/stasis**, **No Man's Sky** and
**Dwarf Fortress** this year. They all haven't been released this year, but I
returned to them, or they had some new content.

## Music

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({ 
  image: "/assets/img/blog/2024-review/music.png",
  width: "360",
  alt: "The final slide of my Apple Music Replay 2024", 
  caption: "The final slide of my Apple Music Replay 2024"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I didn't listen to as much music as I used to. My switch from Spotify to Apple
Music was a huge factor in that. Once I reach "a full year" of using Apple Music
in February, I'll also write a blog post about that. As a short spoiler, I'm
enjoying my experience.

My top artist of the year has been [**aran**](http://aranmusic.net/). Apple
Music even told me I've been in the Top 100 listeners (to be fair, last year's
Spotify top %0.05 percent must have been close to that as well).

## Anime

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/2024-review/anime.png",
  image: "/assets/img/blog/2024-review/anime.png",
  alt: "My AniList Recap of 2024", 
  caption: "My (unofficial) AniList Recap of 2024"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I also watched a lot of anime this year. I have a weekly anime hangout with two
friends for several hours, which gets me to watch many series I usually wouldn't
watch. One of these, solely for its length, is **Hunter x Hunter**, my favorite
this year. I really wanted to watch that one, especially after my friend
[Meriucchi](https://meriucchi.carrd.co) has swooned over it for quite a while.

Another one of my favorites has been **Assassination Classroom**. I'm also quite
late with that one, as it always has been quite a looker with the _weird
yellow-headed alien thing_ front and center. I watched both seasons, and I was
absolutely endeared by that story, and it got very close to me.

## Artworks

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({ 
  image: "/assets/img/blog/2024-review/artworks.png",
  alt: "4 pictures of my OC Poly overlaid with some stickers of the same character", 
  caption: "All the artwork of Poly I received in 2024"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

Every year, I commission many artists to draw artwork for my characters. This
year, it's (as usual) mainly been my OC [Poly](/characters/poly). I discovered
the artist [Simpelplant](https://seledri.netlify.app) this year, and I've ended
up commissioning them several times; of the above image, the second large image,
as well as the stickers at the bottom, have been drawn by them. The third image
was also by them, but not a commission...so, fan art?

For next year, I need to commission more artwork for different characters,
mainly to build their OC pages.

Here are all the artists:

- [yomyompi](https://ko-fi.com/yomyompi)
- [Simpelplant](https://seledri.netlify.app)
- [soyatu](https://www.pixiv.net/en/users/2590741)

## The Retrospring Shutdown

Another big thing I did this year was announce
[the shutdown of Retrospring](https://blog.retrospring.net/retrospring-is-shutting-down-on-1st-march-2025)
in August. The site will shut down in March 2025, and there will be another six
months (until September) to download data exports before everything is gone. The
linked blog post includes all the details, so I'm not rehashing those here.

What I will discuss, however, is the fact that after we announced our shutdown,
suddenly, all other large players shut down as well. Well, not all of them;
Tellonym remains, but **ask.fm** and **CuriousCat** have since shut down. I know
both platforms were troubled before, so we were not the sole reason, but the
timing is just comical.

I have a lot to say about the whole situation, but that's a topic for a blog
post next year, probably as some post-mortem once the entire thing is over.

## Cortex Implant x Pixel

Ever since my "core" friend group fell apart in 2020, I've struggled quite a bit
with social interactions on the internet. I don't want to sulk too much here,
but approaching new groups always felt tedious since most other friend groups
already felt "done" without more space for new people. At some point,
[Revengeday](https://revenge.day) (also part of said old friend group) invited
me to join a group call in their community, and as that became quite big, it
turned into a weekly occurrence that I now enjoy joining. And as I'm not part of
the Cortex Implant community (which mostly comes from their fediverse
instances), it became a _"Cortex Implant x Pixel"_ thing. Looks like I will also
attend a community meeting of CI in 2025 👀

## My New Years Resolutions

Yeah, I'm actually doing that. I generally don't like doing these, but I have
some things I want to get done next year.

- I want to (and need to) lose some weight. I'm not too overweight, but before
  it gets any worse, I should reverse what I gained over the past year. Getting
  into some routine in terms of sports should help with that. I looked into
  getting my VR setup up again to use Beat Saber to move some more. I may need
  to employ some habit-tracking here again, though.

- I need to attend more events next year. As you read above, I mainly
  participated in TYPO3-related events. Due to planning difficulties and not
  feeling up to it, I skipped out on many events I usually attend. Next year, I
  want to attend all of those again, like **FOSDEM**, **Revision**, **Evoke**,
  etc.

---

So, I think that's been everything. I'm sure I missed something of importance as
well, but whatever. I want to thank all my friends who stuck it out with me this
year, giving me a great time through gaming, talking, or just being there for
me. You know who you are.

To everyone, have a successful start to the new year! Thanks for reading my blog
post ramblings. I also enjoy and appreciate all your opinions that I receive on
various platforms.
