---
title: Recap of Dokomi 2025
description: |
  Visited Dokomi again after 3 years, I'll write about my experience and what I got at the event!
tags:
  - event-recap
templateEngine: [vto, md]
---

After my last time attending Dokomi in 2022, it was finally time to do so again!
I was asked by friends if I wanted to go there, and since I wouldn't go there
just on my own (mainly because of the distance), I agreed.

## What I did outside of Dokomi

I arrived on Thursday (to attend Dokomi on Friday and Saturday), so I had some
time to spare and everything off-site. Dokomi was usually grabbing dinner with
different friends.

### QOMO in the Rhine Tower

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/qomo.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/qomo.jpg", 
  caption: "All the food I had at QOMO in Düsseldorf"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

Thursday's dinner was at the sushi/Japanese fusion kitchen "above" Düsseldorf in
QOMO, located in the Rhine Tower. Aside from the stunning view from the windows
(and the slowly rotating restaurant platform to get a full 360-degree view of
the Düsseldorf area), the food was superb. If you want an exceptional experience
in Düsseldorf, this one is it!

### Bulgogi Barbeque Restaurant

On Friday, I went to have a Korean BBQ with my friends Jax, Ori, and Vee. Not my
first time of KBBQ, and I love having it from time to time. An absolute blast
(of good food) with friends. Something that made the whole experience even
better in our case was the staff, who frequently joked around with us, creating
several memorable moments. If we have KBBQ again next year, we will surely come
again!

### Okinii

Personally, I had only ever heard positive things about it from friends, but
every time one was in town, it was fully booked. So, I haven't had a chance to
experience it myself until Saturday. It's All-You-Can-Eat, with ordering
directly from your table using your own phone. You can order up to 5 items at a
time, every 15 minutes, for a maximum of 2 hours. We all were quite satiated
after just an hour, but we still managed to use our time well. Good food and a
pleasant atmosphere!

## Dokomi

Before this edition, I previously attended Dokomi in 2016 and in 2022. Even 3
years ago, Dokomi was a tad smaller than it is now. Now it has 10 halls packed
full of exhibitors and activities... saying "you can see everything in a day"
doesn't hold true anymore, unless you maybe sprint through it. It's not that
recommended, though; you are supposed to look at all the lovely artwork!

Way back in 2016, when I first attended, Dokomi was mainly housed in the CCD,
which now feels like a small building in the southwest corner of the Düsseldorf
Messe.

Therefore, if you want to see all the relevant things, you will need at least 2
days to check all the booths.

I'm not going to detail every day, as it was mostly just me walking around quite
a lot. Looking at my Apple Health stats for the weekend, I walked a total of
**60,000 steps** (amounting to about **25km**). One of the highlights was
meeting my friends, especially those I hadn't had the chance to meet before.
This time, it was quite a lot of them that I have known for more than 10 years
from Twitter and other places. I would have loved to meet more people as well,
but with an event of that size, people are busy and at different locations,
making things a bit tricky at times. Another chance will come, for sure!

## My Haul

Next up, let's talk business! Or rather, the business I made with artists and
vendors at the event, buying their products. I didn't imagine buying anything at
all at first, but there was so much great stuff that I couldn't help myself.
Here's my haul, organized by artists from whom I received items.

{{ comp Dialog { character: "poly", emotion: "confused" } }} Excuse us if the
pictures look subpar, most of them were taken in the evening I arrived and there
was no good lighting setup to put all these items into the spotlight they
deserve!{{ /comp }}

### yorucherry

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/yorucherry.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/yorucherry.jpg", 
  caption: "3 different stickers by yorucherry"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

Miro's booth was actually the first that I headed to right after Friday's
opening. I've known them for what must be 12 or 13 years by now, and with the
Artist Alley being close to the southern entrance (from which I started), that
was my obvious first stop. There were many lovely prints for sale, but I opted
for stickers (because stickers are great!).

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/dr-house.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/dr-house.jpg", 
  caption: "I also made an offering to Dr. House; I had to."
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/2955)
- [Carrd](https://crystalexarrch.carrd.co/)

### OriOttero

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/oriottero.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/oriottero.jpg", 
  caption: "Ori's commission of my OC Poly, a sticker sheet and business card"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I only knew Ori through my friend Jax, who was helping out at his booth for this
Dokomi. I also spent some time here from time to time and, of course, bought
something to support the artist. Initially, it was only a sticker sheet of Ori's
VTuber avatar. Later, I was persuaded by Jax to commission him,.. which turned
out to be a great choice; it turned out amazing.

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/2692)
- [Website](https://oriottero.jimdosite.com/)

### Ghostbyun

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/ghostbyun.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/ghostbyun.jpg", 
  caption: "Umineko print by Ghostbyun"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I used the My Dokomi app not just for the map but also to check if there were
artists selling prints for franchises that I liked. One of those was Umineko No
Naku Koro Ni (very obviously, as it is my favorite Visual Novel). The first few
booths that I found tagged with that were not selling any related prints, so I
was pretty bummed out. On Saturday, I was strolling through the Artist Alley
when I saw a print on the side of a booth, and I had to stop right away to get
it.

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/4289)
- [Twitter](https://x.com/ghosttbyun)

### _naidraws

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/naidraws.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/naidraws.jpg", 
  caption: "Shirt and Bocchi the Rock print by naidraws"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

As Ghostbyun was not at the booth when I initially wanted to grab the Beatrice
print, I had some time to spare and walk around the Artist Alley. I then found
Nai's booth. Here, I grabbed this really pretty Bocchi the Rock print and this
cool shirt!

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/4274)
- [Twitter](https://x.com/_naidraws)

### jomakri

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/jomakri.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/jomakri.jpg", 
  caption: "Matcha-themed tote bag made by jomakri"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

With all the prints I bought above and my miscalculating that A3 prints would
_definitely not_ fit into my backpack, I had to get a bag somewhere. Dokomi was
full of tote bags, but either they were a bit too small, or the prints on them
were not to my taste. While I was searching, I came across jomakri's booth, and
she was selling an adorable matcha-themed tote bag, which I decided to grab.

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/5123)

### Shikama / Rain Droplet Atelier

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/shikama.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/shikama.jpg", 
  caption: "A postcard design with konbini interior on it"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

The first thing that caught my eye here was the plain but pretty booth design in
teal colors! I then decided to look closer and found Shikama, a freelance artist
who drew both sprites and backgrounds for otome games (one of which was also
advertised there, as she had worked on one with friends). The main piece I
bought here is not in the picture above, as I made a commission that wasn't
completed by Saturday evening. However, I'll have it sent by post afterward, and
of course, you'll hear from me once the OC art arrives. Additionally, I received
a postcard with a nicely detailed konbini interior.

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/6244)
- [Twitter](https://x.com/111Maka111)

### nana ga design

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/nanaga.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/nanaga.jpg", 
  caption: "The Koi and Cyberpunk foil print by nana ga"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

While strolling through the Artist Alley, I passed this booth frequently, and
the artwork always intrigued me. So, shortly before I had to leave on Saturday,
I decided to grab two prints from it. The black tech/cyberpunk one is a foil one
even, with some details (like the eyes) being foiled and reflective. To not just
pick a single item, I also added the small Koi print!

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/6823)
- [Website](https://nanagadesign.com/)

### KazuraArt

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/kazura.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/kazura.jpg", 
  caption: "The 4 different Testsieger stickers and Kazura's business card"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

I accompanied Jax through the Artist Alley to work through their shopping list,
and we came across this booth. I also went through what was offered and found
this fantastic set of 4 stickers that mimic the German consumer safety group
ratings for (roughly translated) **son of a bitch**, **cutie**, **NPC**, and
**rascal**.

- [MyDokomi profile](https://my.dokomi.de/en/con/exhibitors/5911)
- [Twitter](https://x.com/KazuraArts)

### JaxOffTV

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/jaxofftv.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/jaxofftv.jpg", 
  caption: "A sticker sheet of Jax's different emotes"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

The VTuber with the most _"I wonder how Twitch allowed that username"_ username
and a really good friend of mine. Technically, they didn't sell me anything, but
I received a sticker sheet and a business card.

- [Website](https://link.jaxoff.tv/)
- [Twitter](https://x.com/JaxOffTV)

### Yume Shirokuro

<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-start -->
{{ comp.Figure({
  url: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/yumeshirokuro.jpg",
  linkClasses: "lightbox",
  linkAttributes: { "data-group": "dokomi" },
  image: "/assets/img/blog/dokomi-2025/yumeshirokuro.jpg", 
  caption: "Keychain of Yume's VTuber Cosmos, both front and back view"
}) }}
<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-end -->

Someone else I got to know through Jax! And where it was somewhat essential to
meet: To prove that I exist. I regularly watch anime with Jax, and when I turned
into Yume's stream once, I was introduced as "the anime buddy." I joined the
chat to poke some fun, and that started the controversy that I don't exist and
am only Jax's second account. So, to once and for all prove that I am, in fact,
real, we met up!

{{ comp Dialog { character: "poly", emotion: "happy", inverse: true } }} if it's
said a few more times maybe you will disappear for real.{{ /comp }}

I also got a super cute keychain of their VTuber, Cosmos...and I didn't even
notice it at first (as it was always held on the keyring), but the keyring also
has bunny ears, which is such a lovely detail!

- [Twitter](https://x.com/YShirokuro)
- [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/yume_shirokuro)

---

I remember that I didn't really enjoy previous editions of Dokomi all that much,
although I'm not sure exactly what the reasons were. But this time was
different. It was so good that I considered extending my stay for Sunday as
well, but by the time I had that idea, the tickets for Sunday were already sold
out. Well, now I know better for next year.

Thanks to everyone I got to meet and hang out with this year; you made this
event a blast, and I look forward to seeing you again next year!

💙
